Text on datagrams (#273)
quicwg/ops-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-applicability.md

old version, stop sending the old version in Version Negotiation packets, then
the old version is no longer accepted.

# Unreliable Datagram Service over QUIC

> {{?I-D.draft-ietf-quic-datagram}} specifies an QUIC extension to enable sending

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{?I-D.draft-ietf-quic-datagram}} specifies a QUIC extension to enable sending
```

and receiving unreliable datagrams over QUIC. Unlike operating directly over
UDP, applications that use the QUIC datagram service do not need to implement
their own congestion control, per {{?RFC8085}}, as QUIC datagrams are
congestion controlled.

> QUIC datagrams are not flow-controlled and as such data chunks may get drop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QUIC datagrams are not flow-controlled, and as such data chunks may be dropped
```

if the receiver is overloaded. While the reliable transmission service of QUIC
provides a stream-based interface to send and receive data in order over
multiple QUIC streams, the datagram service has a unordered message-based

> interface. If needed, an application layer framing should be used on top to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interface. If needed, an application layer framing can be used on top to
```

> recognise the order of received message chunks.

Reviewer: I think it's more about demultiplexing than ordering, since ordering is implicit in the QUIC packet numbers.

```suggestion
allow separate flows of unreliable datagrams to be multiplexed on one QUIC connection.
```

> allow separate flows of unreliable datagrams to be multiplexed on one QUIC connection.

Author: ```suggestion
allow separate flows of unreliable datagrams to be multiplexed on one QUIC
connection.
```

old version, stop sending the old version in Version Negotiation packets, then
the old version is no longer accepted.

# Unreliable Datagram Service over QUIC

{{?I-D.draft-ietf-quic-datagram}} specifies an QUIC extension to enable sending
and receiving unreliable datagrams over QUIC. Other than with the use of UDP

> only, the datagram service in QUIC is congestion-controlled, and thereby

Reviewer 2: What does "Other than with the use of UDP only, the datagram service in QUIC is congestion-controlled," mean?

Reviewer: This probably would be cleared if it were phrased as being about unreliable datagrams, not UDP. Tunneling UDP is just one way to use datagram frames.

Reviewer 3: I would rephrase this as "Unlike operating directly over UDP, an applications that uses the QUIC datagram service need not provide its own congestion control, per {{?RFC8085}}, as QUIC datagrams are congestion controlled."

Author: ```suggestion
and receiving unreliable datagrams over QUIC. Unlike operating directly over UDP,
an applications that uses the QUIC datagram service need not provide its own
congestion control, per {{?RFC8085}}, as QUIC datagrams are congestion controlled.
```

Reviewer 3: Yes, thanks. That seems clearer to me, except s/its/their

> supporting application designers to address the requirements in {{?RFC8085}}.

Author: ```suggestion
```

QUIC datagrams are not flow-controlled and data chunks may get drop if the

> receiver is overloaded.

Reviewer 2: I'd move this last sentence into the next paragraph, because lack of flow control is just another way in which Datagrams are not reliable.

> The reliable transmission service of QUIC usually provides a stream-based
> interface to send and received data over eventually multiple QUIC streams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reliable transmission service of QUIC provides a stream-based
interface to send and receive data over multiple QUIC streams.
```

> The datagram service, however, usually provides a message-based interface,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The datagram service, however, provides a message-based interface,
```

Unless there's a reason to use usually and you're going to explain what happens when that's not the case, I think it's clearer without.

Author: Usually is there because you can also implement an message base interface for stream (see taps) and there is nothing in the protocol spec that says anything about the interface.

> with the expectation that an application layer framing exists on top to
> recognise messages boundaries as well as the order of received message chunks
> if needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Application layer framing can exist on top to recognise messages boundaries
as well as the order of received message chunks if needed.
```
